Hello welcome back to the artificial intelligence master class.
This is Carol Eremenko.
And in this section we're talking about variational Ardern colors.
Now in this first tutorial I wanted us to take a quick pause from intuition and actually understand
the purpose of variational also kowtows.
In this model what's the port what purpose do they serve.
Why are we introducing variational encoders into this model and assigning the purpose will help us go
through the rest of the operational decoder tutorials much faster and get the most out of them including
the practical side of things literally.
So here we are at the article that we recommend for this course.
World models that get how did I know.
A wonderful paper or blog that explains a lot of the things that we're doing with this model.
And so let's scroll down and actually have a look at the model itself.
So this is where they start talking about the variational encoders and we'll get back here in a second.
But for now I just wanted to go all the way to the appendix or here the appendix.
I'll take you down to the appendix.
So here you can see this model which you are no doubt already familiar with where we have our inputs
here.
Then we perform all our convolutions and other operations and then finally we get to this part here
which looks like a bottleneck.
And in fact it is a bottleneck.
And then we go back to that reconstruction.
So this is the variational out in court it will look in more detail into this specific structure in
the fall.
Falling to Charles and it will be very clear after that.
But what purpose does this serve here.
We've got the inputs and then we've got out what is this variation on to and quarter doing well what
it's actually doing it is the variational outturn coder is the component of our model that creates the
dream.
We've already talked and for lunch has mentioned this many times that the idea behind this model is
that we are allowing our artificial intelligence to dream and then come up with solutions and in streams.
So here you actually see some examples.
This is one of the clearest examples here that this is the actual observation from environment.
And this is what we get encoded in the end.
So this is the dream that artificial intelligence is going through and somehow we need to create it.
That's where the variational out uncolored it comes in.
So now we can look at it in a bit more detail.
Now that we know you know overall that's that's the purpose to create the dream.
How does it create the dream now.
So if you look here you'll see that we've got the image it's coming in.
Then it's been encoded with our auto encoder which is actually a variational and quarter.
But for now we can just think of this as a normal auto and core has been encoded.
Then we have the bottleneck or the middle of the ATA encoder or it's also called the latent factor in
the middle and then that's information that compressed information is used to is decoded into a reconstructed
frame as you can see it's the quality has dropped that here.
Now we could do this with a normal auto encoder and indeed we could code encoded and then decode it.
And that's what we would have.
And we would have a compressed environment so that's one of the benefits we'd have like a compressed
version of our original environment.
And that's one of the benefits of using an auto and color is that we can take a environment with millions
or sometimes in some cases it goes up to billions of parameters.
I think somewhere here in the notes the comments are not sure which one it was but basically an outturn
encoder allows you to compress this environment into from billions of parameters really reduce the parameters
and extract extract the features that really matter that really matter for this task at hand.
You know perhaps the color of the wall doesn't matter or the the texture of the wall does not or the
color of the ceiling doesn't matter.
But how these these monsters in this case how these monsters are moving and where the missile is flying
it showed which speed that does matter.
So extracting the features that actually matter so trading that out in court in a way to check the features
that actually matter.
That's already a step forward.
So and encoder quarter would allow us to construct a compressed environment or compressed or a compressed
version of compressed reality where we train our model and then take that trained model into the real
into the real world.
So that's what an auto encoder would do.
But why do we have a rational.
So that's where the dream comes in.
When we dream as humans we don't actually see the world exactly as it is sometimes but probably rarely.
Most of the time it looks a little bit different.
So here's a screen shot here is perhaps a dream like a dream version of what we might see in a dream
or it might see something that we might see something got so something slightly different.
A modified version.
And this is where the variational are and color comes in because in the middle of a variational all
in color.
It has a stochastic component here.
Actually some more examples.
So there is a screenshot.
There's original There's a reconstruction.
So it can there's many ways that it can reconstruct it and that depends on how this latest picture was
sampled.
So let's go back to what we're talking about the stochastic components here.
As we will see in addition to others in a variation of our encoder this component here has some 660
So some randomness.
The way we encode and decode is not fixed it's not just like one vector every time the suppression happens
some sampling occurs and that allows us to create slightly varying dreams every time slightly varying
representations or reconstructions.
And that allows for more diverse training allows us to allows artificial intelligence to go through
various Even with the same inputs go through various different iterations So for instance the inputs
but they are to feel intelligence actually dreaming lots of different stuff all lots of different scenarios
and it's learning from all of them.
So not only are we compressing the input space like for instance we're getting rid of these colors and
the green for example is an example that might not be important to the decision making process.
Not only are we compressing the input into space but we're actually creating slight variations of the
input space all the time and effectively we're increasing our possibility for training our opportunity
for artificial intelligence to learn.
That's how the dreams are more powerful than the actual.
And we can be more powerful than just the actual reality that we have.
So here we have an example once again of the actual observation of what's happening in the dream or
directions.
So that's in a nutshell the purpose of introducing Mauritian and quoters as you can see it's a very
very exciting idea very exciting approach to solving this challenge and to helping our AI learn.
And in the falling tutorials we learn intuition behind version all that and coders and then you will
code them in practical practical tutorials together for lunch.
On that note I hope enjoyed today's tutorial and I look forward to seeing you back here next.
Until then enjoy.
I.